the un's top court is due to rule on
South Africa's demand that Israel
immediately suspend its military
operations in Gaza let's have a closer
look at what's happened with the case so
far it's a hugely divisive and emotive
trial home please be seated South
Africa's case at the un's top Court
states that Israel's acts and omissions
in Gaza are genocidal in character South
Africa believes that the publicly
available evidence of the scale of the
destruction resulting from the
bombardment of
Gaza and the deliberate restriction of
food water medicines and electricity
available to the population of
Gaza demonstrates that the government of
Israel not Jewish people or Israeli
citizens the government of Israel Israel
and its
military is intent on destroying the
Palestinians in Gaza as a
group South Africa has filed more than
80 pages of evidence to support its
claim that Israel has breached us
obligations under the genocide
convention a document from
1948 which both Israel and South Africa
have signed reputation of this
court Israel rejects the allegation its
legal team says the entire case is
invalid the simple reality is that the
events which are the subject of these
proceedings are occurring in the
framework of a war instigated by Hamas
governed by the legal framework of
international humanitarian law they do
not fall within the remit of the
genocide
convention in Israel prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu had stronger words
for South Africa's
move no one will stop us not the hag not
the Access of Evil and no one
else the hypocritical Onslaught at the
ha on the Jewish state that arose From
the Ashes of the
Holocaust at the behest of those who
came to commit another Holocaust against
the Jews is a moral low point in the
history of
Nations the Netanyahu government its
lawyers and the military say Israel is
exercising its right to self-defense in
response to the Hamas Terror attacks on
October 7th last year and that they are
doing everything possible to protect
civilians in
Gaza but well-respected International
bodies including the UN have cast doubt
over whether the huge civilian death
toll in Gaza can be justified in the
name of
self-defense according to the health
Ministry and Hamas R Gaza more than
25,000 Palestinians have been killed
during Israel's military campaign most
of them women and
children those who have survived thus
far are largely displaced and living in
conditions the UN has described as a
humanitarian
nightmare to make a legal decision on
whether Israel's conduct amounts to
genocide could take years in court in
the meantime South Africa has asked the
judges in the hake to order an immediate
stop to Israel campaign in Gaza drawing
praise from the Palestinian un
Ambassador the lesson of the
Holocaust is not that you should defend
Israel when it is committing
atrocities but rather that one should
stand against
atrocities regardless of who commit them
and who endure
them a court order for Israel to stop
its war in Gaza would be final and
legally binding but the international
court of justice has some history of
being
ignored and standing by for us at the
international court of justice in the he
is DW correspondent Lucia Schon Lucia
today the judges there will not rule on
the genocide allegations that might take
years so what kind of ruling are we
expecting
today yeah good morning we have
expecting an order on so-called
preliminary measures or provisional
measures these uh provisional measures
are an emergency relief that is thought
uh to not make the case which is at core
worse so to say so South Africa when it
launched its application uh it has asked
for these provisional measures and it
has been asking for a number of
provisional measures among them uh that
Israel should be ordered to stop all
military action but they have also asked
for allowing more humanitarian
assistance into the Gaza Strip or also
um that Israel should be ordered to
collect evidence for the law case later
so there's a range of these measures and
the court is free uh to decide whether
it will follow South Africa and Grant
some of these provisional measures or
whether it will um have its own
provisional measures or also to dismiss
them at all and do not order any
provisional
measures well see if the UN judges do
rule that Israel has to stop its
military action in Gaza what would that
mean for
Israel yeah so as I said this would be
one option of all of the provisional
measures um what I for which we still
have to wait but what I can say in
general is that orders of the uh
International court of justice are
legally binding um at the same time the
court has no enforcement mechanism so it
can't really force uh any state to
follow it um nevertheless yes what you
have to keep in mind this court behind
me is the United Nations top World court
so to say so the International Community
is watching this case very carefully
which you can also see with a lot of
states have come out on the one side or
the other having spoken out uh that
they'll follow it and that means that a
judgment comes with a certain political
pressure and with a certain symbolism
and that is something that legal experts
say should not be underestimated even
though there is no like hard enforcement
behind it um but as I said we will have
to stay AIT tuned whether there are any
legal consequences for Israel at this
stage and how they look like Lucia thank
you very much that was DW's Lucia
Shulton in the
h